# SQL and SQL Management Studio


## What is SQL?

- Stands for Structured Query Language.

- Used to communicate with a database- access and manipulate.

## What Can SQL do?

- execute queries against a database

- retrieve data from a database

- insert records in a database

- update records in a database

- delete records from a database

- create new databases

- create new tables in a database

- create stored procedures in a database

- create views in a database

- set permissions on tables, procedures, and views

## SQL Management Studio?

- Database server that implements the Structured Query Language (SQL).

There are a few default databases: 

- __master__ - Primary system database of SQL Server. Used to identify any user who accesses the database, when and how. Keeps track of everything you do on the database server. If corrupted SQL Server will not work (restore this database or reinstall SQL Server and restore all your user databases.)

- __model__ - Used as a template for all databases created on an instance of SQL Server. Any new user database that is created that must have standardised settings which will be stored in model and these settings will be adopted by any new database created. Since tempdb is created every time SQL Server is started, model also provides tempdb with a set of standardised settings every time SQL Server starts up.

- __msdb__ - Used by SQL Server Agent for scheduling alerts and jobs and by other features such as SQL Server Management Studio, Service Broker and Database Mail.
- __tempdb__ - Global resource that is available to all users connected to the instance of SQL Server. Temporary user objects that are explicitly created, such as: global or local temporary tables, temporary stored procedures, table variables, or cursors. Internal objects that are created by the SQL Server Database Engine, for example, work tables to store intermediate results for spools or sorting. Row versions that are generated by data modification transactions in a database that uses read-committed using row versioning isolation or snapshot isolation transactions. Row versions that are generated by data modification transactions for features, such as: online index operations, Multiple Active Result Sets (MARS), and AFTER triggers.